---
layout: page
title: "Should you learn PHP in 2020?"
subheadline: "discussing about php in 2020"
teaser: Discussing about Pros and Cons of learning PHP in 2020. Should we actually learn PHP in 2020? We will figure it out.  
sidebar: right
comments: true
header: no
image:
    title: php-2020.jpg
    thumb: php-2020.jpg
    homepage: php-2020.jpg
    caption: "php in 2020"
categories: 
    - php
---

As we all know, PHP is dominating the web programming world for a long period of time. It was created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1994, which means it's been almost 3 decades! And from the beginning, this programming language ruled over everything in terms of web developing. There were no suitable languages or modules for web programming. But now a days, there are a lot of better options available! You have nodejs, some python modules, like Flask, Django etc which are basically a lot improved than PHP. So the main question is, should we learn PHP in 2020? does it worth the time? We will figure it out soon.

We will discuss about Pros and cons of PHP and then we will decide whether we should learn PHP or not. 

### Pros:

* It's a Object Oriented Programming Language. You can arrange data using objects, you can make your own unique methods to handle different things. 
* It's easy to learn. It's syntax is easy, it doesn't have a lot of fancy syntax stuff to confuse you.
* It has a very strong community, I'd say one of the best community. If you have any problems with PHP, just google. You'll always find a way to solve the problem, it's almost guaranteed. 
* [Wordpress](https://wordpress.org), [Laravel](https://laravel.com/) and other big CMS use PHP on their background. So if you want to work with them, PHP will help you a lot. 
* If you want to develop your career as a freelancer, you'll get a lot of opportunities because people ar still intented to complete their websites with php. 
* About 90% of the whole web still use php as their background, so you will get a lot of rooms for your job. 
* There are a lot of third party plugins and modules you can use in PHP. 

### Cons: 

* PHP is hard to read. Though it's syntax is too easy to understand, it's readability is pretty low, because it's used imbaded with html and it looks messy. You can't sort them well. And Other new frameworks, like Django, flask, nodejs has an upperhand. They have a very organized coding structure which is nice. 
* PHP is backdated and SLOW! It's a bit shocking! But it's true, PHP is slower than Django. Django uses python which is faster. 
* PHP is not flexible. You can only develop websites using PHP, nothing else. Where Django, Flask, nodejs all are pretty flexible and lot more dynamic. You can develop android apps and softwares etc with others but you can't use PHP in those fields. Specially, python is outstanding here. 
* You can make big projects with PHP, but Django, nodejs will give you more structured frame, which will help you to maintain everything easily. Making a huge project with PHP is a bit time consuming comparing with others. 

Now, the main question is, should we learn PHP in 2020? Answer depends on what you want to do in the future. It's obvious that Django and other web frameworks will take over PHP someday, but I don't think it'll happen in the next 10 years. So you're pretty safe atleast for 10 years. Since learning PHP is easy, you can start with it. You can understand the basic concepts of web programming easily with PHP. And also, PHP is not an alien language, so you can easily shift from php to any other languages. I you learn PHP, you will get a lot of job opportunities, no doubt about that. You can shift to another framework, it's very flexible. So in my openion, IT WORTHS TO LEARN PHP EVEN IN 2020! If you are new at web developing,start with php, just do it. I know there are better frameworks, but start with a basic understandable language, then when you'll be familier with web developing, you can do anything you want. But if you alrady know one of the modern frameworks and willing to shift to PHP, I'll suggest not to do that. Instead, take your time and practice more on that field. That's it for today. I'll leave you a youtube video where you can get some more informations. 

<iframe class="iframe-video" width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/NNp51W246mk" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>